hello hello my name is Alex I'm Alex my
name is Jay I'm being strategic because
there's a competition and what are we
doing today we're doing part three round
three round three of the Battle of the
Battle of IELTS speaking and we're in an
interesting position because I've won I
won round one did you what happened in
round one well I pretty much destroyed
you true yeah it was pretty good round
two
don't worry about round two well in
round two I'm pretty sure I kicked your
butt quite a bit you did you did
I feel like that was not fair anyway
we're gonna settle it with round three
okay well up to pot three now so this is
Alex vs. Jay round three of IELTS
speaking
short
[Music]
okay so in part three of IELTS speaking
what happens
I've forgotten so after you do part two
last time I think you talked about a
company that's right I talked about a
team that's right
then you'll be asked a series of
questions based loosely on that topic so
I would be.talk
I'd be asked questions about maybe teams
at work or working together this is
working alone okay and you're supposed
to discuss things in a kind of broader
abstract way not talking about yourself
and your family and your experience okay
so the way that I see it is like part
one in IELTS speaking like small talk
just very simple questions do you like
the rain for example yes I love the rain
part two gets into that really complex
extended one where you need to speak for
two minutes and then this is like a
different one where you have to become a
little bit more philosophical and
thoughtful and give extended answers
yeah and is it like back and forth with
the examiner a bit more so than in in
part 1 and part 2 that examiner is
following a script like a robot they
will not deviate they'll not say
interesting or nice or anything like
that the part 3 they get a bit loosened
up and in part 3 the examiner can add in
questions so if you say something that's
interesting or something they want to
explore more they might ask you a
question that's off script like can you
tell me more about that or what's an
example of that or why would you say
that okay and while we're speaking in
part 3 in fact throughout the whole of
IELTS speaking what should we be
conscious of like what are the criteria
what are the examiners listening for yes
well you should always like same thing
with writing deliver your speaking
deliver your writing with the criteria
in mind so you do need to get across
what's expected of you there are four
criteria criteria
fluency and coherence can you remember
that grammar is definitely one of them
but it's not just grammatical accuracy
it's also grammatical range so that's
one vocabulary range and also vocabulary
accuracy as well so that's - is there
one for like coherence yeah
fluency and coherence I can't remember
pronunciation oh yeah of course
speaking mm-hmm and the other thing to
keep in mind and as you prepare is using
a method particularly if you're kind of
new and you're not you're not really
sure how to answer some of these
questions and some of the questions are
pretty weird examiner might ask you the
impossible question they're not trying
to trick you they're just if you're a
high-level candidate though they'll push
you you remember in your tips when I did
my test they they push you to take your
ideas further and further and so you
need to have a good method to fall back
on so you know of course you can find
all our resources on I'll speaking
inside our IELTS course I'm logged in as
an academic member here if you're
general it will say IELTS general course
click on this and you'll see all of the
sections of the IELTS test click over
here on speaking this is what we're
doing today part three when you click on
this you'll see there's an overview
video a method video samples here quiz
and some practice for you to do and
record yourself as well inside the
course if you click on the vocabulary
button you'll find the topic talk it's
here and just click on one to download
each topic talk it has essay topics
based on the theme of the toolkit
speaking questions part 1 2 & 3
clickable resources for reading
listening and videos a full sample essay
and a bunch of vocabulary on that topic
ok so let's cut to the chase and get on
with the battle for part 3 so how are we
going to do this ok so we're going to
use a PDF or downloadable PDF you can
find it in the link below on our blog
which has 20 topics 20 IELTS topics with
part 1 and part 3 questions so we've
both got that on our phone I emailed it
to you thank you and we're gonna spin
the wheel like we did in part one okay
and we're gonna land on the topic and
I'm gonna ask you those questions in the
real test the part three will take four
to five minutes but we won't watch the
clock today we'll just see all right see
what you got cool all right um
who's gonna go first so you're gonna
speak first what ask we're gonna ask you
question all right at five okay so
here's the wheel I'm gonna click start a
new say stop no ok um stop ah okay oh
okay let's see what have you good luck
thank you all right
so Jay let's talk about creativity okay
do you think creativity can be learned
or is it a natural talents well that's a
really interesting question I think
sometimes people go to university to
study things like creative arts for
example and to be honest I think there
can be some way that you can learn how
to be creative but ultimately I think
creativity is something that you're sort
of born with
I think creative people are typically
quite strange like a little bit odd or
eccentric they're not typical people in
society they obviously think very
differently and because they think
differently they're able to apply that
to things that people would otherwise
not see as being able to be creative
with what do you mean by strange
oh okay so if you think about like the
most creative people throughout history
they've always had sort of odd
personality so as I mentioned they'd be
sort of eccentric and what I mean by
that is that they would have sort of
abnormal philosophical views about the
world or certainly abnormal behaviors
mm-hmm
how can parents help develop their
child's creativity I think it's a really
good practice for parents to give their
children artistic pursuits my sister who
has two kids for example lets her
children play with crayons and draw lots
of pictures so art is a really good way
but I also think just reading to them
giving them a large vocabulary just
education in general will really spark
their creativity how important is
creativity in the workforce I think it's
I think a subsection of the workforce
needs to be creative because they need
to drive innovation and develop new
products etc but you don't want everyone
to be creative in the workforce because
some people just need to follow what the
creative people do if everyone will like
Steve Jobs that nobody would actually
develop the computer systems they would
all just be visionary mm-hmm are there
any drawbacks to being very creative
well interestingly I remember reading
somewhere about poets suffering from
depression as an interesting medical
thing yeah a lot of these people who
have these great creative insights and
write this beautiful poetry would also
suffer a lot so they'd see the beauty of
the world and they'd also see the dark
side of the world as well so that's
certainly a drawback do you think that
that is a prerequisite to great art and
great creativity is a troubled mind oh
that's a great question an extra for you
um I don't think it's a prerequisite but
certainly I think that musicians who
create beautiful music and artists who
paint beautiful pictures they are sort
of in touch with both sides the dark and
the light and I think that really helps
them to there for their work to resonate
with other people mm-hmm pretty pleased
with yourself pretty pleased with myself
there okay okay resonates at the end
there was a good topic actually I've
thought about that stuff before so it
was helpful I think that you also like
picked up your fluency in that last
question in that last question when you
you'd obviously read something yeah and
you were able to talk about yeah yeah
difference in fluency was quite noticed
important always to read and listen the
topic talking yeah the one on art is
about places yes yes because I could
just draw on that
I read somewhere once and then all of a
sudden was that brother little all these
information came out rather than me
going oh god what am I gonna say mmm
like that to read widely okay your turn
let me spin tell me when stop
media okay okay oh sorry forgot to
unlock my phone to do it now gonna go
down to media here we go this is it
okay Alex let's talk about media no
let's talk about newspapers do you ever
read the newspaper to be honest these
days I've actually stopped reading the
newspaper certainly I did not read the
physical the paper version I haven't
done that for I don't know probably five
years I did used to check the newspaper
online every day but you know recently
I've just been feeling that there's a
lot of bad news out there every time I
turn on my computer or my phone I
already see the headlines so yeah I've
actually stopped doing that I think in
fact a lot of people are turning off
from traditional media particularly when
times are quite tumultuous as they are
right now mm-hmm
do you think just reading the headlines
is enough no that's a really good point
I think that's a very dangerous thing
and something that a lot of society is
guilty of at the moment myself included
just reading the headlines of course
that's tends to be clickbait the the
editors the newspaper conglomerates just
want you to click on it mm-hmm and so
they put the most dramatic thing in the
headline and yeah of course you should
read a little bit deeper than that
mmm why do some people not like reading
the newspaper well as I mentioned I
think it can become overwhelming mm-hmm
in the past year the newspaper played a
really pivotal role in people's lives it
was their access to the world and their
access their only access to information
but now we are absolutely bombarded
every second of the day information is
coming at us through all channels and so
I think that
yeah the newspaper is just another
another aspect of that and a lot of
people feel like you don't we don't need
it even though it does still provide
very reliable information you know goes
through a strict editing process that
Instagram or a Facebook post doesn't
necessarily go through so yes it's good
information but I think people have just
had enough do you think we'll still have
newspapers in the future you know I read
something a while ago it seems like it's
inevitable that newspapers are going to
become extinct but I did read that the
income that comes from print based
advertising is is much greater than the
income that comes from advertising when
it's online I don't know if that's still
the case that article was five to ten
years ago but that seemed to me to
suggest that where possible media
outlets are going to try to preserve
their print media wing the end how do
you feel you in good actually borrows
from your technique there and brought in
something that I read a few years ago
that in my mind yeah yeah it's a good
topic it's something that we've been
talking a lot about lately so the
language was fresh the ideas know my
mind oh I think we're neck-and-neck here
so if you want to practice yourself with
the PDF just follow the link below and
you can also spin the wheel on that blog
post zoom with a friend yeah yeah if you
want to practice with us and our e to
experts you can do that as well we've
got some packages where you can have
live one-on-one sessions with us uh-huh
and also we've got this really fantastic
mock test where you get a full exam like
simulation on the computer which you can
do from home and then also comes with a
one-on-one speaking exam right so you
get to practice part one two and three
with one of our expert teachers that's
worth doing it yeah it's really good so
you you really feel like you're in the
test situation the teacher the examiners
just looking at you delivering questions
and the pressure is on for you to
respond you can also record that so you
can rewatch it
really helpful cool well I guess now
it's time for you to vote for your
favorite teacher Wow who's wearing a
blue shirt that's not fair that's right
for the best performance best
performance showed the most fluency and
coherence wide range of our cameltoe us
and bombarded
[Laughter]
[Music]